So for those set up, we can go back to the firebase messaging package page and there you got the IOC
integration steps.
Now it looks short, but actually you got a few steps that you need to perform here.
For example, you need to generate certificates required by Apple for receiving push notifications.
Again, for that identification part, where you're basically telling Apple, hey, that's me, I'm
the creator of the app, and here's my proof.
Now, you can follow this guide, as you can see, to configure that.
And that takes us to the official firebase cloud messaging docs.
Now, here you should go for the first two steps, but you can skip Detriot, the provisioning profile
step, as is also mentioned here.
So let's go through the other steps then, and the first step is that we create an authentication key
for that, we need to have an Apple developer account and log into that so we can search for Apple developer
or Apple developer account and find their Apple developer page and log in there with your Apple ID.
Now, once you did log in.
You should go to certificate's identifiers and profiles and under a key select, all as you can tell.
Let's go there.
Go to keys and there simply click on plus that all part is not required for me, at least here I can
just click on Plus to create a new key.
Now, I did that there for.
And now we should enter a description for the appends off key.
And under a key, services, select the Appends check box and click continue, so here, in the end,
we want to check this aptness checkbox, which basically says that we want to generate a key which we
can use to send push notifications.
And we should give this a name like FLEDER chat example, something like this.
And once you did all of that, you can click, confirm and then download and then safety's key in a
secure place because that will be a key which we will soon provide through Firebase Cloud messaging
to Apple for every message we want to send to send that message.
So anyone with that key could cause harm to your application and could abuse it.
So store it in a secure place.
Don't just put it on your desktop, don't uploaded to a GitHub repository, store it in a place where
only you have access to all the knowing that it's a one time download and you can't retrieve the key
later.
So make sure you don't lose it.
So let's click on Continue Your Register.
And here we get the same warning that we can only download in once, so let me now download this key
and I'm storing this in some folder on my system now where no one else has access to.
So that's the key downloaded, the next step now is that we create an app ID, so that is basically
an identified that uniquely identifies our application.
And there we use this reversed domain notation here, which we also use for our bundle identifier.
For that, go to the Apple developer member sender and login, you should already be locked in by now
and then click on certificate's identifiers and profiles.
So where we just were essentially.
And in their.
Navigate to identifiers, app IDs, so identifiers, and then here we got app IDs, as you can tell.
And we want to add a new identifier here.
So the plus button was clicked.
Now that new APD has a name.
Which is basically a human readable name and a timid.
So let's generate this app here.
Continue.
Give it your description, like Fleder.
Chet, example, your team I.D. should already be selected here and now choose a bundle ID here and
choose explicit, as it also says here, and then input your bundle ID, which you also have in your
application.
And that's important.
It has to be the same one.
So your iOS Roner folder, you have the envelope list file and in there Dedman ID is inserted by flutter
in the end.
Now, if you're not sure what your actual ideas they offer, you can simply open your project and Xcode.
So that is folder of your flutter project in Xcode and they're under general.
It's this bundle identifier I'm talking about.
Grab this bundle identifier.
Now, important before you continue.
You should scroll down here and check push notifications to make it clear that this app intends to use
push notifications.
That's also what you find here in the docs that you should check push notifications.
Thereafter, we can continue and verify our inputs.
And click register.
Now, as mentioned, you can skip the create provisioning profile part here.
All the worth a note, of course, your bundle identifier should be one that's not already taken.
For example, I changed mine to calm accouterment flutter complete guide to mine.
This my company because cormick sample flutter, a complete guide was already taken.
If that happens for you, you have to change it here to something unique to your company name and then
some identifier for example.
And then all the Rijad your project on Firebase.
So remove your existing iOS project here and re added as shown at the beginning of the module.
It's super simple and not the end of the world.
So once that is done, we can skip that, create the provisioning profile step.
And then for now, we're done with step one here in the IOC integration.
No worries.
The other steps will be faster.
For example, we already finished step two.
We linked our project to Firebase already, so we don't need to do this again.
Now, here in Xcode, we now need to configure something, though.
We need to select a runner in the Project Navigator and then into Capability's Tab.
We should turn on push notifications and background modes and enable background fetch and remote notifications.
So here in Xcode, click on Runner and under signing and Capabilities.
Click on Plus capability and choose push notifications here.
Double click on it.
Now, all the click on that again.
And choose background modes and on background modes, then enable remote notifications and background
fetch.
These are the two things you should enable here.
Next, let's follow the steps here under upload your AppNexus certificate in the Firebase Docs.
This is required because the firebase cloud messaging service in the end just talks to Apple's push
notification service.
And therefore, we need to make sure that FCMB firebase cloud messaging is able to talk to those service
and is able to provide our identification criteria.
So our key to those servers.
So we already set up our client, we already added Firebase to our iOS project, we registered our app
with Firebase, so that all happened.
Hence now our next step is that we upload our Appian authentication keys.
So that key we generated a few minutes ago.
And for that, go to your firebase console and other project settings, go to cloud messaging.
So here.
Click on project settings on that gear icon and then project settings and then go to the cloud messaging
tab and scroll down to your iOS app configuration and there you need that app and Wolski click on upload
here.
Well, to upload it and browse for that key file you downloaded a few minutes ago.
So here is my key and I will open it here.
And then in order to upload it, you need to enter your kid and your team ID.
Now you find both underage certificates, identifiers and profiles.
Here is the key idea, which, of course, is different for you, but you can grab it from that page.
This was not deleted after your download, so you can still access this and your comedy.
This is the idea you find here in the top right corner.
So injured both here and click on upload, and it should story your key here.
So that were two steps, two and three year in that documentation we're currently going through.
Now we need to initialize Firebase on our app, but that's something we can skip because we're using
the Firebase Flattr as the case, we can skip all of that and we can also skip that entire part for
handling the messages, because we're going to do all of that with help of that flutter package here.
Indeed, as it says here, we just needed to upload our app and certificate.
Only that part need to be completed.
And that is the part we just had a look at.
So, Delford, we're done with step four, we can ignore step five here, and with that, we're therefore
done with the I was set up here, though.
Now we also need to do something in our flutter code, because whilst we are able to just start sending
messages on Android and we didn't need any flatter code, that's not the case here for us.
We need to request permissions first and therefore we need to write some code to do that before we'll
be able to send notifications to our iOS device and see them there.
So to do that, let's pick a good place.
And I will just go for, let's say, that chat screen.
I could ask on the main dart file, but if a user hasn't even locked in, it doesn't make much sense
to start sending messages to that user.
So instead, here in the chat screen, I want to ask the user whether he's fine with me sending push
notifications to him or her not to ask for permissions.
I will convert chat screen here to a state full of widget simply because now I have this extra life-cycle
hook which I can use here the in IT state function.
So here we can now write our own extra code and that's where I want to ask for permission.
So that will ask whenever this comes up.
Whenever Dad opens up.
For that, let's import this.
Package, which we added earlier, the firebase messaging package and there to firebase messaging DARD
File and in in its state here, we can now access firebase messaging.
And instantiated like this, there is no instance property, as on the other firebase flutter packages
here we have to instantiate like this.
And we can store this in a variable or in a constant, to be precise, I'll name it FPM for Firebase
Messaging and on FPM we can now call request notification permissions, not on Android.
This will do nothing but on us.
It will well ask for permission.
And they're after in the next line, I call FPM Configure.
Now, let's save this and let's rerun this updated app here on the real iOS device, because as mentioned
earlier, you need a real iOS device to test and use push notifications.
So here is the app running on my real iOS device.
And I will now switch to a different app so that the main app is not in the foreground anymore.
And now let's try sending a message for dad here in a cloud messaging area, all duplicate my last notification
here.
This test notification and under target.
I will now also target another app.
I will also targeted that I saphir click on next, click on next and click on review.
Now don't publish it yet because at the moment this would not work.
I could send it, but actually keep in mind that we need to grant our permission first.
That's all.
Actually switch back to my flutter app and instead log in real quick so that I reached a chat screen
where I am being asked for permission.
Here I am now, I will grant this permission and now I will switch away to a different app.
So now, with the permission granted, we can click publish here.
And I do get this push notification here.
Does this work?
This now is one of the notifications I have here, and if I tap on it, it opens up the Flattr chat
app.
So this is how we can send push notifications with help of the Firebase Cloud Messaging SDK and service
to flutter apps both on Android and iOS.
Now let's see how we can handle those messages inside of the app.